- [Instructor] Logging is an important part
of developing and operating any kind of application.
We are going to explore different ways
to incorporate logging in your Lambda Function,
how logs can be tracked in CloudWatch Logging service,
and finally,
some best practices specific to Lambda logging.
The most basic logging we have
is using Standard Out and Standard Error,
which are captured by Lambda runtime,
and are shown in the result of Lambda call in IntelliJ,
or Lambda web console.
They're also pushed to the CloudWatch Logging service,
which centralizes logs from many different services,
such as Lambda,
API Gateway, Step Functions,
and many others.
You can then easily view them,
search for specific search terms or errors,
filter specific fields,
and archive for future analysis.
Three main concepts you should be aware of are,
Log Events, which represent a single log message.
Log Stream, sequence of log events on the same source.
In Lambda, this would come from the same virtual container.
If we deploy a new version,
or if you have five parallel and concurrent executions,
there will be five containers created.
And for each one, new log stream.
Log group, group of log streams that share the same element.
For example,
this would be one Lambda function or one API Gateway.
Every invocation will always include
start and end report logs,
with the request ID,
which is unique for each invocation.
While System.out and error are easy to work with,
they don't support log levels or multi-line logging.
For example,
one e.printStackTrace()
would create a log event for each line.
In Java, it's much more typical to use a logging framework
like Log4j 2 with SLF4J,
which allows us to easily set log levels
and define custom message outputs.
The configuration can be copied
from AWS Lambda logging guideline.
First, we need to add Maven dependencies
of AWS Log4j 2 appender,
which I already have prepared.
This library is required
since it appends request ID to our logs.
Specific to AWS Log4j,
we must also configure a new transformer
for the Maven Shade plugin.
So just copy paste over existing plugin
and refresh Maven.
And lastly,
we need to add Log4j 2 XML configuration file,
which defines the logging pattern
together with log level.
With this configuration,
each line contains date,
time, request ID,
log level and class name.
To use Log4j,
we will be using SLF4J
as a facade library for logging.
First thing we need to add is a logger
from logger factory.
To make things easier,
I will use Lombok annotations.
Now just add a couple of log files between the code.
Now let's update our Lambda function.
And finally, let's make a new request.
Now we can see Log4j logs in CloudWatch console.
But keep in mind,
we never need to leave IntelliJ.
With AWS toolkit,
we can also observe logs directly in AWS Explorer.
Just right click on function and view log stream.
Let me leave you with some best practices
when it comes to logging.
If you want to change log level
without making deployment,
use environment variables.
In CloudWatch,
you can filter down JSON events.
So when logging objects,
it is useful to convert them to JSON
with lightweight Jackson library.
And finally,
check out Lambda Powertools utility.
It outputs structured JSON.
It allows you to pass in strings
or more complex objects,
and takes care of serializing the log output.
With simple annotations,
it covers common use cases
such as logging the Lambda event payload,
and capturing cold start information.